# {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless durable function application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders:

- hello-world - Code for the application's Lambda function with durable execution support.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Deploy the sample application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools:

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* Node.js - [Install Node.js 22](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello-world/package.json`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/event.json
```

For durable functions, you can view the execution and execution history:
```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local execution get $EXECUTION_ARN
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local execution history $EXECUTION_ARN
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam local start-api
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ curl http://localhost:3000/hello
```

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Unit tests are written using the [`@aws/durable-execution-sdk-js-testing`](https://github.com/aws/aws-durable-execution-sdk-js) library. The testing library allows you to simulate running your execution locally while mocking any dependencies.

```bash
{{ cookiecutter.project_name }}$ cd hello-world
hello-world$ npm install
hello-world$ npm run test
```

Visit the [AWS Durable Execution SDK for JavaScript](https://github.com/aws/aws-durable-execution-sdk-js) to learn more about writing durable functions.

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.
